Confirugation management

Puppet, Chef, Anisble, Salt

Anisble uses push method, agentless, python programming, yaml script
inteventory, dyanmic inventory

ansible supports both windows and linux.

Disadvantages less windows support, debugging and performance less in larger scales.

Can create module and can be used in all cloud platforms
just need public access or access to ansible for configuration.
/Uses ssh to connect linux and win.*** to connect in windows..

For modules and yaml codes uses ansible galaxy .
to insatll ansible in our machine we need to install python and follow the instrctions in ansible documentation site or
use create ubuntu EC2 and 
* sudo apt update
* sudo apt install ansible.
* ansible --version

Ways to configure a target machines
1.  ssh-copy-id Private IP 172**** - but ssh does not have enough permissions to configure

second method is :
2. ssh-keygen 
we need to aprove the directory home/ubuntu/.ssh/
- we get authoraziedkey, id (RSA) public and id (RSA private) private keys.
never share private keys, copy the public keys using cat pathway, and copy the key content
connect second machine and give ssh-keygen, ls ~/.ssh/
change to sudo -s [in target machine]
vim authorized paste the public key from main machine (first machine or master)
so that ansible machine can connect to tartget machine without password using ssh-IP
ssh-private IP (target)	

We do not need to write playbooks all times.  For simple tasks, we can use CLI commands.

create inventory file and add target private IP addresses.

for simple tasks use ansible adhoc commands.

For ansible adhoc commands use ansible galaxy that is all modules
https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/2.9/modules/list_of_all_modules.html

ansible -i inventory all -m "shell" -a "touch deveopsclass"	
-m means module,.  -a means arguments.

for copy we can change the module to copy using 
ansible -i inventory all -m "copy" -a "src: "" dest: ""

there are other adhoc examples like delete ,paste ... we can try it

the are different types of servers like db servers and web servers
we can group up server in our inventroy file as list[]

ansible will looks into the file and check for webserver group and excute
ansible -i inventory webserver -m "shell" -a "touch deveopsclass"

search modules and arguments for adhoc commands?

ex to install ngnix and restart ngnix
create a yml playbook

 
---
- name: Install Nginx
  hosts: all
  become: true

  tasks:
    - name: Install Nginx
      apt:
        name: nginx
        state: present
    - name: Start nginx
      service:
        name: nginx
        state: started
ansible-playbook -i inventory first_playbook.yml
go to target system and check with command
sudo systemctl status nginx
it will show active running status
 
these are the methods of cmds in ansible
-ansible -i inventory webserver -m "shell" -a "touch deveopsclass"
-ansible-playbook -i inventory first_playbook.yml
-ansible-galaxy role init jenkins
doubts ?
where to find path for roles?
Git sends notification to jenkins.  USing WEbhooks it only semnds trigger or notification to jenkins.

What agent u r using in Jenkinsfile?
We use declerative file becuase are better, scripted are more unstructured, decleartive are easy to write and easy to colleraberate,
even non-techanical persons can understand.

What type of agents you are using in Jenkins?
We are using Docker agent which is very light weight, easy to use.  If we are using docker agents we dont need to do lot of 
installation like building tools mavens and testing tools etc..


BEst continous devlivery is Gitops